All right, let's look at
some out of the ordinary concepts
for Local Variable Scope.
You can define a nested or inner class within a method,
which seems to break the local variable rule
we've talked about in this section of the course.
The code that I'm about to paste in compiles
and executes without problems.
The reason for that is because an inner class
has an implied qualifier reference
to the outer class object and its attributes and methods.
So we're gonna create a new class now
in our scope project called NestedScope.
All right, we're gonna paste in this code.
All right, and you can see that I've created
a new inner class there locallyDefinedClass
in our main method within our nested scope class.
Now again this code seems to break the rules
for scoping, but if you can remember
that a class defined locally has an implied qualifier
applied to any attributes and methods in the outer class
then you can keep track of your variable.
So if we actually run this code,
you can see that it works.
Right so let's change our second for loop.
So this is this one down here
starting on line 27.
Now what I'm gonna do is remove the int type
proceeding i = 5,
so that we're then not declaring a new variable i
but rather we're attempting to set the existing
i variable to five,
and scrolling up we can see we've defined i
on line 11 there.
So let's do that.
On line 27, I'm going to remove the type,
and suddenly we've got errors
and if we hover over that and have a look,
if variable i is accessed from within the inner class,
needs to be final or effectively final.
Right, so let's undo that change.
Let's try changing i in a different way.
We'll come down here to the line
after our new instantiation
of locallyDefinedClass on line 41.
I'm gonna put an i++ there.
You can see something.
We've got other errors here.
We've got errors showing up here,
and it's the same error as last time.
Rather cryptic error message,
variable i is accessed from within inner class,
needs to be final or effectively final.
so I'll just undo that,
and we'll actually remove that line.
So, again, if you can remember that a class
defined locally has an implied qualifier
applied to any attributes and methods
in the outer class, you can basically keep track
of your variables that way.
So an inner class has an implied qualifier reference
to the outer class object, and its attributes and methods.
All right, and we're gonna discuss the nested class
in more detail in a later section.
For now, we just really wanted to go through
and look at how this effected variable scope
at this point in the course.
All right, so next coming up we're gonna have
a short quiz to test you on some
of the scoping concepts we're been discussing
in this section of the course.
See you in the next video.